FIRST TIME ON THIS MAC?  ->  read "SETUP ON A NEW MAC.txt"

That covers the macOS security block, which stops the launcher the first
time on every new computer. It is two minutes and only ever done once.

WHAT THIS TOOL PRODUCES
=======================
One numbered folder per order:

    print/
      orders.txt      which folder is which custom label
      1/
        1.png         artwork on transparency — this is what gets printed
        1_SHIRT.jpg   how it looks on the t-shirt
      2/
        2.png
        2_SHIRT.jpg

Folders are numbered in the order the labels were pasted. orders.txt at the
top maps every number back to its custom label, so nothing is lost by not
putting the label in the filename.

The two files, and nothing else:

    NAME.png        the artwork on transparency, untouched — this is what
                    gets printed
    NAME_SHIRT.jpg  how it looks on the t-shirt — the same picture the eBay
                    listing uses, so it matches what the customer saw

The shirt image is fetched from Cloudflare, not rebuilt, so there is nothing
extra to install and it is identical to the listing. If a design has no
mockup stored (an older one, or one never processed), the tool falls back to
the artwork flattened on black.

No halftone. No white underbase. No CMYK/spot TIFF. No solid mask. Nothing
is added to the picture.

The files go to the designer, who builds the white plate and decides which
artwork needs one. Anything this tool added would be work he has to undo
first, so it adds nothing.

Open the PNG in Preview and it will look patchy — macOS draws transparency
as white and the design's dark areas are deliberately absent, because the
shirt shows through there. That is correct, not a fault. Judge it by the
_SHIRT.jpg.


IF YOU EVER NEED THE OLD BEHAVIOUR
----------------------------------
The switches are still in the window, just turned off. From the command
line:

    python3 order.py GR-0330615 --halftone      # halftone screen
    python3 order.py GR-0330615 --white         # white underbase plate

Leave them off unless the designer asks.


PRINT TOOL
==========

A window. Paste your eBay custom labels, press the button, get print files.
No Terminal.


FIRST TIME ON A MAC
-------------------
1. Unzip everything into one folder, e.g. Documents/tshirt-orders.
   Keep the files together.

2. Double-click "Print Tool.command".

3. macOS blocks it the first time:
       "Apple could not verify this is free of malware"
   Click DONE.

4. Open  System Settings  ->  Privacy & Security
   Scroll to the bottom. You will see:
       "Print Tool.command was blocked"
   Click  OPEN ANYWAY  and enter your password.

5. Double-click it again. The window opens.

Steps 3 and 4 happen once per Mac. The first run also installs two Python
libraries, about a minute.

If nothing happens at all when you double-click, the file lost its runnable
flag in the zip. Once, in Terminal:

    chmod +x ~/Documents/tshirt-orders/"Print Tool.command"


USING IT
--------
1. Paste the custom labels into the box. One per line, or several on a line
   separated by spaces or commas.

2. Press "Make Print Files".

3. The folder opens on its own when it finishes. Default is
   Desktop/Print Files — press "Change folder" to put it elsewhere.


WHAT YOU GET
------------
   01_GR-0490874.tif            <- SEND THIS TO THE PRINTER
   01_GR-0490874.png            colour artwork, transparent background
   01_GR-0490874_WHITE.png      the white underbase, ready made
   01_GR-0490874_PREVIEW.jpg    on black, for checking only — do NOT print

THE .tif IS THE ONE THAT MATTERS

A sample file the designer produced was examined: CMYK with a fifth channel
holding the white plate, stored inverted, and choked in from the colour edge.
That is exactly what this now writes — same structure, same channel order,
same convention, at 300dpi instead of 72.

So the .tif can go straight to the printer. No Photoshop, no hand-selecting
the smoky edges, no waiting on the designer.

To turn it on, once:

    pip3 install tifffile imagecodecs


The other files are there if they are wanted:

  If their RIP builds its own underbase (most do), send the colour .png
  only. Tick "White ink" in the RIP and ignore the _WHITE file.

  If someone has been making the white layer by hand in Photoshop, send
  BOTH files. The _WHITE one is that layer, built from the artwork itself —
  no hand-selecting, nothing missed, and already choked so it cannot show
  around the edges.

Numbered in the order you pasted them, matching your picking list.


WHY THE PNG LOOKS WRONG ON SCREEN
---------------------------------
Open the .png and it looks patchy. That is correct.

The background is transparent, and Preview shows transparency as WHITE. The
design is made for a BLACK shirt, so its dark areas are deliberately absent —
the garment shows through instead of being printed. Against white that reads
as holes; against black it reads as the design.

The _PREVIEW.jpg is the same artwork on black, which is how it will actually
look. Check that one.


PRINTING
--------
    transparent PNG  ->  RIP adds the white underbase  ->  print

1. Open the .png in your RIP software
2. Enable White Ink / Underbase — the RIP builds it from the transparency
3. Print to film, powder, cure, press as normal

Do not flatten the file or add a background. The transparency is what tells
the RIP where to lay white ink and where to leave the shirt bare.


THE WHITE UNDERBASE
-------------------
On a black shirt the printer lays white first, then colour on top. Without
it the colours vanish into the fabric.

That white layer is what a designer would otherwise build by hand: select
the artwork, put a white shape behind it. Soft or smoky edges make that
selection almost impossible to do cleanly, which is where it goes wrong.

The tool now builds it automatically from the artwork's own transparency,
so it matches exactly. It is also CHOKED — pulled in about 0.17mm from the
colour edge — so it cannot show as a pale halo if the film and shirt are a
fraction out of register on the press.


THE SOLID MASK IS NOW OFF BY DEFAULT
------------------------------------
The first attempt at the opacity problem replaced the soft transparency with
a hard mask: find everything above a brightness threshold, treat it as one
solid shape, soften only the outer boundary.

It worked, but it had two costs. Dark areas inside the design became solid
ink instead of letting the shirt through. And where a generation left faint
haze across the whole frame, that whole square became solid — which is where
the boxy prints came from.

Halftone has since made it unnecessary. Halftone turns every pixel into
either full ink or nothing, so the output is completely opaque either way.
Measured on the same artwork:

    with the mask     edge-cut 15%   ink 39%
    without           edge-cut  3%   ink 31%

So the mask was adding 8% more ink and five times more boxy edges, for a
benefit halftone already provides. It is left in the window as an option but
switched off.


"NOT ENOUGH OPACITY" — FIXED
----------------------------
An earlier version derived the transparency from image brightness, which
looked right on screen but printed badly. On dark artwork only about 43% of
the design was fully opaque; the rest sat at partial transparency, so the RIP
laid down a thin dithered white underbase and the colours printed weak.

The tool now finds the subject, makes it SOLID, and softens only the true
edge. About 98% of the design is now fully opaque. It looks the same on the
shirt but the white underbase lays down properly.

The "Solid print" tick box controls this. Leave it ON. Untick it only if your
RIP handles partial transparency well and you specifically want a softer,
more dissolved edge.


"SMOKY EDGES DO NOT STICK" — THE HALFTONE OPTION
------------------------------------------------
This is the proper fix, and it is what experienced DTF printers do.

Two facts about DTF:
  1. it cannot print semi-transparent ink at all
  2. the adhesive powder needs a minimum dot size to grip — roughly a
     quarter of a millimetre

So a soft fade has nowhere to go. The printer either lays a hazy white
box behind it, or the fine specks carry too little glue and come away in
the wash, leaving a dusty speckle round the design.

Halftoning converts the fade into a pattern of SOLID dots that grow and
shrink with the intended opacity. Every dot is large enough to hold powder,
and from normal viewing distance the eye blends them into a smooth
gradient. Newspapers have done this for a century.

    before   1.9% of the artwork at partial opacity
    after    0.0% — every pixel is either full ink or nothing

It also removes the white halo, because there are no semi-transparent
pixels left to trigger a partial white underbase. And it uses less ink
overall, so the print feels softer and breathes rather than sitting on the
shirt like a plastic patch.

Set at 28 LPI with a 45 degree screen, which is the middle of the 25-35
range the DTF trade recommends. The cutoff is worked out from dot size:
anything that would print smaller than 0.25mm is dropped rather than
printed as dust.

Leave "Halftone edge" ON.


THE OLDER HARD EDGE OPTION
--------------------------
DTF adhesive powder only holds where there is enough ink. A soft, feathered
edge has thin coverage, so barely any powder sticks there and it peels after
a few washes. That is what the printer means.

"Hard edge" cuts the boundary clean instead of fading it, leaving about a
pixel of anti-aliasing so it is not jagged.

    soft edge   1.9% of the artwork too thin to hold powder
    hard edge   0.5%

All of that 1.9% sits on the perimeter, which is exactly where peeling
starts, so it matters more than the number suggests.

This was the first attempt: cut the boundary clean instead of fading it.
It works, but it throws the fade away. Halftone keeps the fade AND makes it
printable, so use that instead. Hard edge is left in only for a printer who
specifically asks for a hard cut.


FLAT GREY SLABS — A GENERATION FAULT
------------------------------------
Occasionally the generator leaves a solid grey rectangle in the artwork: a
panel or frame it hallucinated, perfectly even, with no texture. It is not
part of the design, but nothing downstream can tell — it carries enough ink,
so it prints.

One design in a twelve-design sample had them. The tool now warns:

    [4] GR-0619705 - done   ** 33% flat grey - check for a slab artefact

If you see that, open the _PREVIEW.jpg. If there is a grey slab in it, do not
print that design — end the eBay listing and pick another. It is a fault in
the artwork itself, not something the print settings can fix.


BEFORE A BIG BATCH
------------------
Press ONE shirt and look at two things:

  - do the edges fade softly into the shirt, or is there a hard line?
  - is there a white halo around the artwork?

The artwork fades at the edges by design. Most RIPs handle that; some
threshold it into a hard cut. If the edges come out hard or haloed, say so
and the file can be adjusted to suit your RIP.


THE SQUARE EDGE — FIXED
-----------------------
Some generations leave a faint haze right out to the frame edge rather than
fading to true black. The tool used a fixed brightness threshold, so that
haze counted as artwork, printed solid, filled the corners, and the design
came out as a square block.

Two changes:

  The threshold is now measured from each image's own border instead of
  being fixed, so flat background haze is dropped while genuine smoke and
  flames are kept.

  The outermost band is tapered, so artwork that runs off the frame fades
  out instead of being cut dead in a straight line.

On the skull-and-flames test this took corner ink from 67% to 0% while
keeping the flames.


THE DARK RING — FIXED
---------------------
An earlier version applied a heavy radial fade to keep designs from printing
as a square. It was cutting the artwork down to 57% at the mid-edge, which
read as a dark ring closing in on the design, and the halftone then turned
that band into visible dots.

Tested against real artwork it turned out to make no difference to the shape
at all — the subject mask already follows the artwork's own outline. So it
now touches the outer corners only and leaves the design alone.


PRINT WIDTH
-----------
9.6 inches by default, set in the window. Change it for a different platen.
